well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we are filming our
Veterans Day special and it's going to
be a multi-part series in which we're
going to discuss all of America's
conflicts all the United States's
conflicts when we think of our conflicts
we think of the Revolutionary War the
war of 1812 the mexican-american war
Civil War spanish-american war or war
one world war two Korea Vietnam Desert
Storm and then the war on terror that's
a tiny fraction of our conflicts when
history gets recorded the minor ones get
left out fifty years from now nobody's
gonna know about Somalia the tungo tungo
ambushed Grenada Panama none of this is
going to be talked about thank God even
so what we're gonna do today in various
parts because it would get way too long
is we're going to talk about all of them
I have written a on a whiteboard in
front of me the names of the wars in the
years I'm gonna give you a little bit of
insight a little bit of commentary on
most of them keep in mind I haven't
actually taken a class on this stuff in
like 17 years so one of them interests
you you might want to fact-check it a
little bit okay
so we're gonna start off with the
Revolutionary War 1775 to 1783 the
Cherokee American War 1776 is 1795 this
is almost 20 years of minor skirmishes
if you want to know something cool about
this look up a guy named dragon canoe
the Northwest Indian War 1785 to 1793
this is a war of the Northwest Territory
keep in mind this was the Northwest
Territory at the time so we're not
talking about Washington and Oregon
we're talking about Ohio we have Shay's
rebellion 1786 1787 that's an up
over debts and taxes the whiskey
rebellion 1791 1794 also about taxes the
quasi-war at 1798 to 1800 at the end of
the American Revolution we owed the
French money when they had their
Revolution if we were like it's a new
government we're not paying you and
they're like yeah are we had some naval
battles never it didn't grow too much
but it was kind of a de facto quiet war
a quasi war
yeah Fry's rebellion in 1799 to 1800
another tax revolt the Barbary Wars
first Barbary war was 1801 1802 med the
German coast uprising in 1811 this was a
slave uprising near New Orleans there
were two whites that were killed and in
response we killed a hundred black
people to come sis war also 1811 now
this was the end of the sixty years war
that was a war for the control of the
Great Lakes this is where we get the
slogan Tippecanoe and Tyler too and this
pretty much calls the war of 1812 the
war of 1812 in the US this is a major
event this is one of the few wars we
actually learn about American historians
will refer to it as America's second
revolution because it secured our place
on the international stage meanwhile
everywhere else in the world this is a
sideshow this is a minor theater to the
Napoleonic Wars the creek war and that's
1813 to 1814 this was an internal war
with the creeks the Spanish and the
British were supporting red stick side
and the Americans were supporting the
the opposing creeks the big thing to
come out of this Andrew Jackson became a
hero became a war hero not such a great
thing the second Barbary war 1815 also
Pirates first Seminole War 1817 to 1818
this is wins the Seminoles were sent to
the reservation in Central Florida prior
to that they were up in Northwest
Florida near Pensacola the Texas Indian
War since 1822 1875 - the real history
buffs out there yes I understand some of
the other conflicts that I'm going to
talk about could just be filed under
this but I want to highlight that we're
talking about 55 years of land grabs and
ethnic cleansing it was settlers versus
natives let's see the Eric Carle war
that's 1823 I think this is one of the
few native wars that wasn't over land
like directly I want to say this had to
do with the fur trade what I do know is
it was the first time the US military
was active west of the Missouri you have
the Aegean Sea operations in 1825 to
the Winnebago War 1827 minor skirmishes
this one didn't get too crazy
the first Sumatran expedition in 1832
some indigenous Indonesians attacked a
merchant ship and the US Navy went there
and exact it reprisal the Black Hawk War
in 1832 this one's actually really sad
there was some land that had been ceded
to the US government
and a native leader sees it it's not
being used so he settles there with his
people the Americans in the area thought
it was a prelude to an attack and war
commenced the Second Seminole War 1835
to 1842 this is when Jackson decided to
move the Seminoles to Oklahoma second
Sumatran expedition 1838
it's a exact replay of the first a
merchant ship was attacked the US Navy
went there to exact reprisal the pork
and beans war in 1839 1838 and 1839 the
United States and the United Kingdom go
to war over the border between Maine and
New Brunswick as if that's worth
fighting over
so this was a joke even at the time in
this war nobody died
we took some British soldiers POWs and I
think some Canadians might have gotten
injured but nobody died the Ivory Coast
expedition in 1842 that's pirates again
but this is a little different
merchant ships were getting attacked but
they're getting attacked along the Ivory
Coast by people in war canoes they might
have had a good reason to fear white
ships call me crazy
the squadron of ships that was there was
actually there conducting anti-slavery
operations because by 1842 as far as the
federal government was concerned the
transatlantic slave trade should stop so
that's a weird one
the mexican-american war 1846 to 1847
let's see the caios war 1847 to 1855
same old story land grab so now we're at
1850 we're not even to the Civil War yet
first seventy-five years
a lot more conflicts than get talked
about granted some of these weren't
major but some of them were huge and
they just get left out because we don't
like why the war started we don't like
the outcome we don't like how it paints
us so it doesn't get included I think
the Veterans Day is probably a good day
to talk about all these so part two of
this will be coming very very soon
because we're getting over our normal
time limit anyway it's just a thought
y'all have a good eye